---
title: "Welcome to my new blog! Setting .mdx filetype in (n)vim."
date: 2023-05-21
---

## This Blog

Hello! I am very guilty of having my ideas and solution notes scattered throughout my
file system in random markdown files for years, until I hunt them down and think
_"this would have made a great blog post to share..."_

no longer shall this anti-pattern stand!

This blog is going to consist of these notes, sometimes longer tutorials for things
I'm researching and doing for personal projects, opinions on coding, and maybe
some other posts about other interests I have.

## A Fresh Start

This post is about something that I just ran into. I just recently got a new ThinkPad to
spice up my home-coding-life again. I used Arch for years on laptops in
the past -- (_remembers blindly upgrading during a semester after they switched to `systemd`_) --
and wanted to get back into it. All of my machines at work have been OSX since
graduating so I had shifted my focus over.

With my shift back to a traditional linux setup I am doing some cleaning and starting
over from my very old configs.

One being my `vim` configs. And needing to have at least one initial post on
here, even having it be trivial, and not wanting it to be just a `welcome` post... here we are.

## Getting `neovim` to syntax highlight `*.mdx` files.

Loading up an `.mdx` file, `nvim` did not recognize it and I was left with an
un-syntax highlighted file.

Running `set syntax=markdown` fixed it, so lets fix it for good in our `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` or `~/.vimrc`.

```vimscript
" Set *.mdx files to markdown
autocmd BufRead,BufNewFile *.mdx set filetype=markdown
```
And with that, syntax highlighting is fixed.
